# Revenue-Analysis-in-Hospitality-Domain
This BI report provides valuable insights to the revenue management team at "AtliQ Grands".
#### Link for interactive report: https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiMTY5ZTkyY2YtODNlOS00MDY1LWJlNzAtMWE5ZDQ2MDM4NjU0IiwidCI6ImM2ZTU0OWIzLTVmNDUtNDAzMi1hYWU5LWQ0MjQ0ZGM1YjJjNCJ9

## Problem statement: 
Across India, AtliQ Grands is the owner of several five-star hotels. They have spent the last 20 years working in the hotel sector. The strategic actions made by competitors and poor managerial decision-making are causing AtliQ Grands to lose market share and income in the luxury/business hotel industry.

## Objective: 
The objective is to create an interactive report to provide valuable insights to the revenue management team and to enhance and regain AtliQ's market share and revenue.

## Tools used:

- [x] Excel
- [x] MySQL
- [x] Power BI Desktop & Power BI Service
- [x] DAX Studio (for optimizing the report)

## Building the report:

### Overview:
The overview in the report gives quick insights into key metrics like revenue, RevPar, ADR, Occupancy%, realisation%, etc.

### Revenue:
The revenue generated by city, property, room class, day type, category can be reviewed in this page.  

### Bookings:
This view gives a summary on successfull and cancelled bookings, no show bookings, and checked out by city and day type. It also summarizes the booking% by platforms and room class.

### Occupancy and rating:
The view gives summary of two metrics: 
1. Occupancy% by city and day type.
2. Average rating by city, room class, booking platform.

## Few Insights from the project:

- [x] Mumbai stands as the most revenue generating city by 661M with an occupancy of 58%, rating of 3.7, and Atliq Exotica being the prime contributor to the revenue.
      
- [x] Delhi stands as the least revenue generating city by 291M with a rating of 3.8. Atliq Palace is the prime revenue contributor in Delhi with 88M.
      
- [x] Elite rooms are popular among guests with 58% occupancy and 3.6 rating.
      
- [x] Consistency in ADR might indicate fixed pricing strategy and consistency in DSRN might indicate stability and efficiency.
      
- [x] Occupancy % is high on weekends.

## Key Learnings from the project:

✅ Key Metrics like RevPAR, ADR, DSRN, DURN, DBRN,  Realization %, Occupancy and Cancellation %, etc.

✅ Domain knowledge in Hospitality industry.

✅ Soft skills like the ability to comprehend stakeholder requirement via dashboard mockups.

## Acknowledgments
Special thanks to Dhaval Patel, Hemanand Vadivel, and the Codebasics team for creating resume project challenges and providing the datasets. 


